README.md, before:

# 🏙️ GTL IV - New York City Open World Game

## 🎮 Project Overview

**GTL IV** is a modern open-world game inspired by urban sandbox experiences, featuring a detailed recreation of New York City using real-world data and modern game development technologies.

### 🌟 Key Features

- **🗺️ Realistic NYC Map**: Based on actual New York City geography and landmarks
- **🌍 Google Earth Integration**: Real-world data integration for authentic city layout
- **🚗 Vehicle System**: Comprehensive driving mechanics with realistic physics
- **👤 Character System**: Advanced character customization and progression
- **🏢 Building Interiors**: Detailed interior environments for major landmarks
- **🌦️ Dynamic Weather**: Real-time weather system affecting gameplay
- **📱 Modern UI/UX**: Intuitive interface with mobile-responsive design
- **🎵 Dynamic Audio**: Adaptive music and sound effects system

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Frontend

- **React 18** with TypeScript for UI components
- **Three.js** for 3D graphics and rendering
- **Babylon.js** for advanced 3D scenes
- **Framer Motion** for smooth animations

### Backend

- **Node.js** with Express for API services
- **PostgreSQL** for game data persistence
- **Redis** for caching and real-time features
- **Socket.io** for multiplayer functionality

### Game Engine

- **Custom WebGL Engine** for optimal performance
- **Physics Engine**: Custom implementation with realistic mechanics
- **Audio Engine**: Web Audio API with spatial sound

### Data Sources

- **OpenStreetMap** for street layouts and building data
- **Google Maps API** for satellite imagery and terrain
- **NYC Open Data** for authentic city information
- **Weather APIs** for real-time atmospheric conditions

## 📁 Project Structure

```
GTL IV/
├── 📁 src/
│   ├── 📁 components/     # React UI components
│   ├── 📁 game/          # Core game engine
│   ├── 📁 assets/        # Game assets and resources
│   ├── 📁 data/          # NYC data and maps
│   ├── 📁 utils/         # Utility functions
│   └── 📁 styles/        # CSS and styling
├── 📁 docs/              # Comprehensive documentation
├── 📁 tests/             # Test suites
├── 📁 scripts/           # Build and deployment scripts
└── 📁 config/            # Configuration files
```

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- PostgreSQL 14+
- Redis 6+
- Modern web browser with WebGL support

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone [repository-url]
   cd "GTL IV"
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Configure your API keys and database connections
   ```

4. **Initialize the database**

   ```bash
   npm run db:setup
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## 🎯 Game Features

### Core Gameplay

- **Open World Exploration**: Seamless navigation through NYC boroughs
- **Vehicle Mechanics**: Realistic driving physics and vehicle customization
- **Character Progression**: Skill development and character growth
- **Mission System**: Dynamic quest generation and storylines
- **Leyline Drift Missions**: Special questline unlocking sigil-charged vehicles
- **Interdimensional Portals**: Seamless travel between NYC and connected realms
- **Economy System**: In-game currency and property management

### Technical Features

- **Real-time Rendering**: 60 FPS performance on modern hardware
- **LOD System**: Dynamic level-of-detail for optimal performance
- **Procedural Generation**: Dynamic content generation for replayability
- **Multiplayer Support**: Cooperative and competitive gameplay modes
- **Mod Support**: Extensible architecture for community content
- **Divina-L3 Networking**: GameDin-integrated client for cross-realm handshakes

## 📊 Performance Targets

- **Target FPS**: 60 FPS on medium-spec hardware
- **Loading Times**: < 3 seconds for initial load
- **Memory Usage**: < 4GB RAM for optimal experience
- **Network Latency**: < 100ms for multiplayer features

## 🔧 Development Guidelines

### Code Standards

- **TypeScript**: Strict type checking enabled
- **ESLint**: Comprehensive linting rules
- **Prettier**: Consistent code formatting
- **Jest**: Unit and integration testing

### Asset Guidelines

- **Textures**: Optimized for web delivery (WebP format)
- **Models**: Low-poly with normal maps for detail
- **Audio**: Compressed formats with fallbacks
- **Animations**: Efficient keyframe-based systems

## 📈 Roadmap

### Phase 1: Core Engine (Current)

- [x] Project structure and documentation
- [ ] Basic 3D rendering engine
- [ ] NYC map data integration
- [ ] Vehicle physics system

### Phase 2: Gameplay Systems

- [ ] Character system and controls
- [ ] Mission and quest framework
- [ ] Economy and progression
- [ ] Audio and visual effects

### Phase 3: Polish & Optimization

- [ ] Performance optimization
- [ ] UI/UX refinement
- [ ] Multiplayer features
- [ ] Modding support

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **OpenStreetMap** contributors for map data
- **NYC Open Data** for city information
- **Three.js** and **Babylon.js** communities
- **React** and **Node.js** ecosystems

---

**🎮 Ready to explore the city that never sleeps? Start your journey in GTL IV!**

Commit message:

feat: add websocket transport with portal analytics

README.md, after:

# 🏙️ GTL IV - New York City Open World Game

## 🎮 Project Overview

**GTL IV** is a modern open-world game inspired by urban sandbox experiences, featuring a detailed recreation of New York City using real-world data and modern game development technologies.

### 🌟 Key Features

- **🗺️ Realistic NYC Map**: Based on actual New York City geography and landmarks
- **🌍 Google Earth Integration**: Real-world data integration for authentic city layout
- **🚗 Vehicle System**: Comprehensive driving mechanics with realistic physics
- **👤 Character System**: Advanced character customization and progression
- **🏢 Building Interiors**: Detailed interior environments for major landmarks
- **🌦️ Dynamic Weather**: Real-time weather system affecting gameplay
- **📱 Modern UI/UX**: Intuitive interface with mobile-responsive design
- **🎵 Dynamic Audio**: Adaptive music and sound effects system

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Frontend

- **React 18** with TypeScript for UI components
- **Three.js** for 3D graphics and rendering
- **Babylon.js** for advanced 3D scenes
- **Framer Motion** for smooth animations

### Backend

- **Node.js** with Express for API services
- **PostgreSQL** for game data persistence
- **Redis** for caching and real-time features
- **Socket.io** for multiplayer functionality

### Game Engine

- **Custom WebGL Engine** for optimal performance
- **Physics Engine**: Custom implementation with realistic mechanics
- **Audio Engine**: Web Audio API with spatial sound

### Data Sources

- **OpenStreetMap** for street layouts and building data
- **Google Maps API** for satellite imagery and terrain
- **NYC Open Data** for authentic city information
- **Weather APIs** for real-time atmospheric conditions

## 📁 Project Structure

```
GTL IV/
├── 📁 src/
│   ├── 📁 components/     # React UI components
│   ├── 📁 game/          # Core game engine
│   ├── 📁 assets/        # Game assets and resources
│   ├── 📁 data/          # NYC data and maps
│   ├── 📁 utils/         # Utility functions
│   └── 📁 styles/        # CSS and styling
├── 📁 docs/              # Comprehensive documentation
├── 📁 tests/             # Test suites
├── 📁 scripts/           # Build and deployment scripts
└── 📁 config/            # Configuration files
```

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- PostgreSQL 14+
- Redis 6+
- Modern web browser with WebGL support

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

   ```bash
   git clone [repository-url]
   cd "GTL IV"
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables**

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Configure your API keys and database connections
   ```

4. **Initialize the database**

   ```bash
   npm run db:setup
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## 🎯 Game Features

### Core Gameplay

- **Open World Exploration**: Seamless navigation through NYC boroughs
- **Vehicle Mechanics**: Realistic driving physics and vehicle customization
- **Character Progression**: Skill development and character growth
- **Mission System**: Dynamic quest generation and storylines
- **Leyline Drift Missions**: Special questline unlocking sigil-charged vehicles
- **Interdimensional Portals**: Seamless travel with customizable VFX/SFX and analytics
- **Economy System**: In-game currency and property management

### Technical Features

- **Real-time Rendering**: 60 FPS performance on modern hardware
- **LOD System**: Dynamic level-of-detail for optimal performance
- **Procedural Generation**: Dynamic content generation for replayability
- **Multiplayer Support**: Cooperative and competitive gameplay modes
- **Mod Support**: Extensible architecture for community content
- **Divina-L3 Networking**: WebSocket client with retry/backoff for cross-realm handshakes

## 📊 Performance Targets

- **Target FPS**: 60 FPS on medium-spec hardware
- **Loading Times**: < 3 seconds for initial load
- **Memory Usage**: < 4GB RAM for optimal experience
- **Network Latency**: < 100ms for multiplayer features

## 🔧 Development Guidelines

### Code Standards

- **TypeScript**: Strict type checking enabled
- **ESLint**: Comprehensive linting rules
- **Prettier**: Consistent code formatting
- **Jest**: Unit and integration testing

### Asset Guidelines

- **Textures**: Optimized for web delivery (WebP format)
- **Models**: Low-poly with normal maps for detail
- **Audio**: Compressed formats with fallbacks
- **Animations**: Efficient keyframe-based systems

## 📈 Roadmap

### Phase 1: Core Engine (Current)

- [x] Project structure and documentation
- [ ] Basic 3D rendering engine
- [ ] NYC map data integration
- [ ] Vehicle physics system

### Phase 2: Gameplay Systems

- [ ] Character system and controls
- [ ] Mission and quest framework
- [ ] Economy and progression
- [ ] Audio and visual effects

### Phase 3: Polish & Optimization

- [ ] Performance optimization
- [ ] UI/UX refinement
- [ ] Multiplayer features
- [ ] Modding support

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](docs/CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **OpenStreetMap** contributors for map data
- **NYC Open Data** for city information
- **Three.js** and **Babylon.js** communities
- **React** and **Node.js** ecosystems

---

**🎮 Ready to explore the city that never sleeps? Start your journey in GTL IV!**
